Nine of the 10 company I invest halfway
they change their business plan
>> because market have changed.
>> So I like to have entrepreneur as team
not just one person. I always believe in
when I was at cadence and also at Intel
is first of all you crawl and then be
humble listen to customer and then first
step for me is to strengthen my balance
sheets focus on the products and I
really simplify the product listen to
customer and then drive the next
generation leadership products and then
right now the agentic AI and influence
CPU become you know highly in demand and
so in some way I'm happy right now the
demand is very high for my CPU back
Certainly very happy that Jensen Huang
my oldtime friend he also put 5 billion
uh in investing and support me 5 billion
become 25 billion now if you look at it
10 years from now what will be the
winning company the one that
Hi listeners welcome back to no prior
today Allad and I are here with Lehutan
the legendary investor from Walden then
CEO of Cadence now CEO of Intel. We talk
about his plan to transform Intel,
having the US government as a major
shareholder, how to be an amazing
semiconductors investor, and whether or
not we can make chips in the United
States. Welcome, Lipu. Lipu, it's great
to see you. We'll start with the obvious
question. This is a really hard job to
go be CEO of this incredibly important
um American semis company. Why take the
job at all?
>> It's a good question. I'm 66 and people
that well you should retire rather than
take on this hottest job in the industry
and so a couple reason one is um this is
iconic company and it's so important for
the semiconductor ecosystem and also so
important for United States and so I
decided you know do one more after
cadence
>> a lot has happened in this past year
what has been the most surprising to you
>> well the most surprising thing that I
don't learn from my previous job or even
training is one day early morning
President Trump asking me to resign and
conflict of interest and there's no
exceptions and so I had to convince
myself first of all you know I don't
need this job I do it purely to save
Intel and so take that personal issue
out of the way then I figure out what
what can I do
>> to be helpful to Intel and so good news
is
I have a meeting you know Thursday
morning and then Monday I have the
meeting and then he listen to me like I
have a chance to explain myself you know
born in Malaysia grown up in Singapore
went to MIT and I live in US and never
live outside country
>> and so something that I share and then
somehow he listened very well and then
uh he gave me the chance and so I'm
delighted
>> and now you have the chance to do the
work um when you said you know the the
job is to save intel It's a really
important company. What what does that
look like to you? What does Intel
winning or thriving look like?
>> Yeah, I just passed 14 months. A lot of
thing happened in this 14 months. So, a
couple of thing. One is to change the
culture and then uh clearly want to
drive more accountability and also in
term of decision making had to be
faster. You know I'm so used to startup
culture and you move fast in the speed
of light and going to have that
bureaucracy layer of layer of meeting
and so something that I change the
accountability listen to the customer
and the customer delighted you know
someone like liberal so humble willing
to listen and then address some of the
problem that they face and then try to
delight the customer and also the other
part from day one I decided all the
engineering report to me I'm being an
engineer by training I want to know what
went wrong and what are the thing that I
need to correct. Listen to the customer
and delight the customer and then make
sure that we have the right product.
Simplify our product line and really
have the root map and the vision for the
next five 10 years.
>> What is your vision of where Intel
should be in 10 years?
>> Yeah, I think couple of things. One I
always believe in when I was at Cadence
and also at Intel is first of all you
crawl and then be humble. listen to
customer and then secondly deciding to
walk and then finally deciding to run in
spring. So that's kind of my culture of
step by step doing it and then first
step for me is to strengthen my balance
sheets
>> and uh the balance sheet is really have
horrible in some way. So I'm delighted
you know US government become a big
shareholder just I explained to
President Trump TSMC when they started
they have the D Taiwan government as a
shareholder. If you look at Japan, you
look at Singapore, this is the
infrastructure US government get to
provide the support. Secondly, very
happy that Jensen Hong, my oldtime
friend uh he also put five billion uh in
investing and support me and I'm glad I
at least do some good work. His five
billion become 25 billion now and uh or
more. And then the other part is Soft
Bank Master. I used to be at Soft Bank
board and then he lend a hand to help
me. So we strengthen the balance sheet
and then uh focus on the products and I
really simplify the product listen to
the customer and then drive the next
generation leadership products and then
um in some way it's very lucky uh right
now the agentic AI and influence CPU
become you know highly in demand and so
you know versus one to eight in the
training CPU to GPU now I can see one to
four maybe one to
And I'm delighted CPU become important.
I talked to some of the AI model and
developer. They said about in term of uh
reinforced learning uh in term of the
speed of orchestrating all the agents
and turn up the CPU is actually is
better and so in some way I'm happy
right now the demand is very high for my
CPU. So I think overall build on the
product on the data center server side.
Then the other part is our foundry
business and initially this is a capital
intensive business and it's not easy and
you really need to have couple of thing
you need to have all the right IP so
that you can support the customer like
for example if it is a mobile related
you got to have low power uh IP set that
you need to have without that you cannot
serve them it's a service business it's
a trust business if people want to give
you you know orders to have wafer to
If the yield not good they will be toast
in term of revenue miss. So with that I
think it's very important to really
focus on the yield the defect density
the cycle time and then make sure that
you really able to meet and serve the
customer in high quality and reliable
and so those are the thing that I really
focus on it and eventually you have to
really move into a full stack. So not
just a silicon you need to have a
software and some of the customer asked
me give me the whole rack. So there's a
system that you have to build and so I
think those are the thing that I quietly
building uh step by step and recruit
some of the best talent I can find. By
the way all the rec recruitment I do it
myself no search firm helping and so I
think sometime it's good to have a roer
deck that you know who to reach out to
call for. Yeah. I mean, you've been in
the business for so long and you know,
you've you've run a cadence for I think
12 years before this and so
>> 13 years. I'm sorry. Yeah.
>> And then two more years as executive
chairman. So 15 years I signed up for
three months. Three months. So right now
I be very careful the moment you said
just do it for three months. It turned
out to be 15 years.
>> Yeah. Well it seems like you have a lot
of longevity ahead of you here as well.
And so um the other big initiative that
that has been sort of talked about is
Terafab and working with Elon Musk on
that. Can you tell us a bit more about
how that came together and your
involvement and how you all are
collaborating?
>> Yeah, good. I mean, Elon Mus I think we
all agree is one of the best if not the
best uh entrepreneur in this century. He
and I we share the same view that the
semiconductor infrastructure actually is
not catch up with the AI growth and uh
in term of you need the capacity you
need to have the productivity and you
have the dry efficiency and so those are
the thing that he and I we share that
there's some something missing
>> and then secondly he just delighted to
work with him and uh he is very I call
it unconventional
>> and he basically question every step and
then why this traditional way of doing
things and in some way it's very
refreshing and I like that you know I
like people have different opinion and
let's work together find what is the
best route and we both going to learn a
lot together and then I think clearly he
have a vision that his robots and his
car you know he need a lot of silicon
>> yeah could you actually explain what
terapab is for people who aren't
familiar with it and
>> terab he decided he want to build his
own fab
>> and then meanwhile we are delighted to
work with him and then make sure that we
can work together and enable him to be
faster and quicker to the production and
then using some of our technology and
some of our process and that's something
that we both kind of collaborate
together and he's a very good team that
I work with weekly and it just
refreshing to work with him
>> and he's talked about things like he
wants you to be able to smoke inside the
clean room and all these things that
normally are the burger
>> I think I don't go that far and maybe
some part of the clean room you can do
that but I think something that is open
mind and then we are also listen and see
whether we can do that.
>> Yeah I mean it's very exciting to see
how you're morphing in the business here
in the US in terms of um incrementally
building out the foundry business in
terms of collaborating with things like
terra fab if you think about the global
AI and semiconductor supply chain. So
say that you were to look at the changes
that AI is driving on a macro basis,
country by country. And if I look at
certain countries, when I look at the
layoffs that are claimed from AI, for
example,
um most of them I think are overstated
right now. You know, most of the layoffs
are actually just overhiring during 2020
co
>> period. But the first things I see
actually being cut are outsource firms
where you'd rather cut external
headcount versus internal. So you're
cutting external customer support.
you're cutting external IT and that has
more of an impact I think for certain
countries which have big BPOS the
Philippines India etc and so they may be
impacted in the short run by AI and then
if you ask how do companies participate
in the future in a positive way in AI
you have to almost go country by country
right places with cheap energy will do
data centers places with the ability to
train models will train models but it's
probably only the US and one or two
other places um how do you think about
the the shift in global supply chain for
the semiconductor industry should
certain countries invest more like
should Israel be doing more given uh
Milanx and the Nvidia and Intel presence
there and should they try to do more in
semiconductors? Should other should the
Philippines move back to more of a
manufacturing base like how do you think
about that on a global basis?
>> Yeah, good question. So I think clearly
the AI is changing the whole landscape
and I think the impact will be bigger
than internet and uh it's more profound
also. So I think the AI you know in
initially is able to help you to do
things more efficiently and then with a
lot of agent helping you uh to do things
that is now kind of mundane that you
need to do but now they can give it to
you faster. So in some way I think it
can drive a lot of efficiency even like
semiconductor design how much you can
drive the efficiency in term of timing
uh how quickly can you come out and
secondly the cost and so I think those
will be helping you to drive that and
then I think couple of bottlenecks for
the AI you know demand and growth one is
of course everybody knows power
constraint some country the power they
just don't have that it get impacted and
then secondly a A lot of people didn't
realize the helium impact can be also
quite significant for semiconductor. And
then the thirdly is everybody know right
now memory is a bigger shortage and
everybody try to scramble for memory and
then even though you have to build a fab
to capacity increase it will take couple
of years to do that and same thing for
CPU GPU and all this will be highly
demanded and I think the also the
pricing also go up because we have to
pass the price the cost to the customer.
So I think those will be the impact the
industry growth
>> and then uh I think overall I felt that
you know the company that most impacted
is you are not embracing uh AI
>> and because AI can help you to drive a
lot of efficiency across all the
different function of the enterprise. we
should embrace and also find way to
better use the AI for your prediction
for your design for your you know all
the different part of the workload and I
think that's tremendous
>> a number of people would say the
simplistic argument against Terraab
against Intel foundry being competitive
is really a question of you know there's
there's all the factors internal to the
building right you describe um IP and
velocity of just how you're doing
business. Then there are external
factors and you know Allah's talking
about a number of them but one of them
is the the cost of labor and actually
the manufacturing capacity you know in
investing in the foundry business you
obviously believe there's a version
where you can manufacture domestically
and Elon does too can you talk a little
bit about that and you know how real
that constraint is the labor constraint
>> right so I think you know the when I
decided whether should double down on
foundry or should I get out of the
foundry Mhm.
>> And I
>> there's a lot of voices, a
>> lot of voices in the marketplace as you
can tell.
>> It's very expensive.
>> It's very expensive not going to work.
>> But I finally decided this is very
important for United State and also very
important for the industry. Mhm.
>> And I'll give you the idea that you know
this uh we all live through this
challenges of supply chain and uh it's
very important for any of the big
company in semiconductor and really have
to think about the supply chains and you
have to have a robust and resilient
supply chain. You cannot just depend on
one or two player in different
geographic goal and so I think you know
the more and more people going to
realize making in United States is
critical and then the most advanced
process like for example we have the you
know 14A is like 1.4 4 nanometer and we
already starting to plan for 1 nanometer
and 0.7 nanometer. It's getting smaller
and smaller. So in a way it's much like
our hair so thin. So it's a lot of
complexity. It's not that easy to do and
every step if you make a mistake that
you just go down uh you know go down the
drain. So in some way you have to be
really precise and in that
manufacturing. So in some way this is
become more and more going to be the
bottleneck. Mhm.
>> So we felt that we you know we have a
lot of respect for TSMC. We are great
partner and then the more important
>> we both need to have more capacity to
serve the customer
>> and then uh so I think we decided bite
the bullet longer term I think is
critical and then that's where I can
create more value for the industry.
People have been talking for a long time
about eventually um hitting a point of
resolution where you can't really uh
miniaturaturize things further like the
line with width just gets too small to
uh be able to uh keep going. Uh when do
you think we actually hit that limit?
>> Good question. So I think I can see you
know right now we have 18A and then now
to going the production of 14A I can see
10 and seven and so I think that path I
think we can get there but going to be
more and more expensive and more
difficult to do
>> and that's why we need partners we
cannot just do it oursel alone partner
with the subscript vendor partner with
equipment vendors so that make sure that
we can really drive those yield and
performance
>> and then the other part also really
become the bottleneck is packaging the
advanced packaging and so we all know
about co by TSMC now we have a really
good one called e-ip that is a really
next generation I had to make sure that
it become able to do in the production
yield that meet the customer requirement
and now see starting to run out of steam
like you describe so right now I also
look at some new material so become
going back to the material size or the
chemical table so guardian nitrite,
silicon carbide and Indian fastfite. So
I invest in all three.
>> And then looking at some of this new
material, how can we really drive that?
>> And then in term of packaging, I
starting to invest into glass.
>> Glass is a very good heat insulator.
>> So we I invest a venture site called
3DGS. Then I realized that Intel we have
like 1,000 pattern on the module. So how
the you know subscript and the module
put it together and then we just
announced a big program with Indian
government to manufacturing in in India
plus in US in New Mexico. So I think
this advanced packaging very important I
also starting to look at artificial
diamond
>> and that's another very good you know
insulator. So I also invest into uh you
know diamond foundry
>> and that's something is the next
generation to look at. So new material,
new subscript material and new you know
uh design methodology to drive that. So
one thing good about being an engineers
you always hitting the wall then you
find way to either jump over the wall or
you work around the wall and then uh to
get to the better result and that's what
I being uh have been long time as a
investor and building semiconductor from
the EDA tool to design to manufacturing
it's kind of nice to have that
experience now I can help find a way to
make a small contribution to the
industry. Yeah, I it's very exciting and
one of the reasons I'm asking about it
as well is to your point there's always
some things that you can vent around but
there are also physical limits where
>> once you hit seven inst whatever the
limitation is you start to run into yeah
you need to find new materials or find
other workarounds um and then the
interesting question is uh and we've
been talking about this for a long time
I remember 20 years ago people were
talking about how we'd eventually hit
this hit a point where we ran out of
space on this um is do you run into some
sort of asmtote that actually normalizes
performance across different foundaries
or not?
>> Yeah, good question. In term of like
most law is a know double you know.
Yeah.
>> And then the power and the cost and then
you can double the performance but you
cannot double down on the cost and and
area.
>> So those are the thing you have to give
give way unless you find some new way of
material new way of design and then
become material science. I starting to
hire more people in the material
science. So that is kind of innovation
in our area. How can we do that? And I
still remember 18 years ago and I I
still investing in semiconductor and
actually most of the VC firm some of
them were very nice tier one venture
firm a good friend of mine and initially
the partners meeting the whole partners
in the room then after I talking about
semiconductor half make excuse to run
out of the room then eventually the
other half they said available do you
have any software service
>> so then they left with only who
sympathetically listen to me. So it's
kind of the history have changed and now
semiconductor if you look at it Jensen
is a 5.3 trillion market cap company and
then Broadcom and TSMC is two trillion
market cap company and Lisa my good
friend at AMD is almost 800 billion and
I'm close to 600 billion. So in some way
it's kind of semiconductor become hot
again and it become essential because 15
years 20 years ago when I invest in
semiconductor no VC want to join me
except you know some of the big
corporation like Samsung you know ARM
and soft bank and others and investing
with me and then now I starting to see a
lot of VC like to come investing in semi
so I'm very happy
>> given the enormous interest in investing
in this area that used to be considered
too
Right. Yes.
>> Um what do you think I mean you've been
a venture investor with Walden for a
very long time as well as an operator.
Uh you know the the general fears I'm
just going to list a a bunch of them. Um
the the general fears have been uh it's
very capital intensive. Um and you
should tell me what I'm missing. It's
very unpredictable in terms of you know
shipping a design that works missing
tape out. Um and uh you need to
understand the workload very well. I
think there's a there's another which is
just like it's it's very high risk for
the customer. Yes. To switch, right? I
think you know we've been involved in
companies together where you know
there's a design win and then there's
still the question of like scaling order
volume. Um uh and then there's a
cyclicality. Yes.
>> Right. Of you know you you build hard
manufacturing capacity and demand may
may change or not in any any given year.
Um what is your view on how a bunch of
you know what makes it hard as an
industry uh and then the the secular
demand growth from a bunch of different
areas right so you have the um
recognition of how important the a more
diverse supply chain is and then you
have this like explosive demand growth
on the AI side how do you you're still
an investor and then you're making the
biggest bet ever like go be CEO how do
you like think about these different
risk and advise others about where to
invest in this supply chain. I realize
that's a very large question, but just
given your your history with it, I I
think there's a there's a lot of like
yolo action of like there's a memory
shortage by memory stocks um as well as
you know just an unwillingness to take
on things that have a 10-year timeline
like material science.
>> Good. You have quite a broad range of
questions. Let me try to uh explain
that. So first of all I think uh you
know the venture capital startup is in
my blood and I really enjoy it and uh so
I think uh this is not tied to brag
about it and so there's some good exit
you know I still have 159 IPO
126 uh you know M&A and that's include
semiconductor just break down the
semiconductor I invest over the years uh
200 and 38% is in US so what are
actually look at some mechanisms
>> just to just to be clear that's
incredible right
>> thank you thank you it's just enjoy
building it and uh but more important I
look at is first of all on the
investment side I always look at where
is the bottleneck what are you trying to
solve and for example I invest in
company called uh cradle semiconductor
australa lab is this interconnect become
the bottleneck so I decide to back and
also I back uh celestial AI you know
optical sign and then because speed
become more important in the
interconnect in the cluster. So I think
optical become very important. Look at
Jensen he invests in almost every
company is photonic related
>> and then the other part I looking at is
you know okay what are the uh solution
that need like for example we talk about
design and then the complexity and also
the cost. Can you find some using AI
machine learning to drive better design
and better solution? So a couple of new
startup actually go into the EDA related
area to drive performance improvement. I
think it's a goal mine to do that. And
then the other part you look at the new
material and we talk about you know this
u you know Indian fastfi that's why I
invest in infi and then well bought it
and then uh then you invest into some of
the new material that gallium nitrite
and then silicon carbide and then some
of the company starting to being
acquired include one of them you know
doing power management and ADI just
bought empower and so again this IVR
that's a very very good area in power
management become bottleneck in term of
converting from 40 volt down to one volt
and then those in term of that
conversion you lost a lot of power and
how you do drive the power improvement
so I think power thermal those become
the bottleneck so I think I always look
at from what is the problem we try to
solve is it real is customer crying for
it and then I starting to invest the
next thing is look at it's very
important from day one you'll have to
target the first customer
>> and usually I like the customer is hyper
the skill. They have the skill. If they
like what you have, they're willing to
pay million of dollars next few years
and even giving some warrant is worth it
because you have a big one customer you
can scale. So I always look at some of
the formula how do you do that and then
where do you get the talent and then
yeah you know sometime it's very
important to find the talent. That's why
I'm very interested in US and then
Silicon Valley and then some Austin and
then the other part is Israel a lot of
talent so I back quite a few quite a
significant amount my investment in
Israel and then because they have very
disruptive innovative entrepreneur and
they work really hard even in this
wartime they still have conference call
and sometime they say okay there's a
there's a warning I have to go to
underground and then the internet may
not be good maybe we does use voice in
some way it's kind of fun the kind of
resilient entrepreneurship I really
enjoy so I think all in all I felt that
there's a lot of opportunity and
especially in the AI and then right now
beside the agentic AI now you're looking
at physical AI next a mix big frontier
>> and then you had to really look at the
full stack that's why I'm still involved
with a lot of this frontier model that
we very familiar and some of the
investment I back because I really like
open-source frontier uh you know
technology technology for physical AI. I
think that's a goal, mate.
>> You mentioned the opportunity to uh make
certain parts of the design and test of
um of chips uh faster, cheaper, more
creative with AI um given your cadence
experience like where do you what do you
think is most fertile? Is there anything
you think is already working? Yeah, I
think you know uh for almost 15 years
with Cadence and I'm so happy one of my
highlight is able to find my successor
on the road and I train him and he
becomes super great CEO and then he
really embracing the AI you know driving
the agentic AI to drive more efficient
uh but there good part I think synopsis
sashin also tried to do that and they
have investment from you know Nvidia 2
billion I think helping him to do a lot
and he acquire answers to move into the
whole system uh design. So I think all
in all they all do the best thing they
can but also some opportunity for
startup to do some of the more
disruptive and then eventually they can
I go public or being acquired by both of
them or seaman to acquire them. So I
think there's opportunity for all depend
on what the entrepreneur vision and then
as long as I always have philosophy if
entrepreneur want to sell the company
and this quicker way for exit you don't
have a lock up you don't have to worry
about quarterto quarter earning and then
some entrepreneur they from day one they
want to go IPO you know for being a VC I
think three of you with three of us we
all VC we support the entrepreneur their
dream and then help them to fulfill
their dream Yeah, if you look at the
different areas that you mentioned in
terms of future either product
development or impact of AI on the
semiconductor industry, there's
companies like Periodic doing materials,
there's to your point folks working on
the EDA side and uh design and other
aspects and sort of throughout the chain
there's manufacturing. Um do you think
that either Intel or future
semiconductor company 10 years from now
looks radically different from today
given AI and if so how?
>> Yeah, I think so. I think first of all
uh back to Sara your question about
capital intensive and a little bit
unpredictable and cyclical. So you have
to kind of put that into factor into
your decision making investment you know
I usually like to go in very early put a
team together it's kind of fun to do
that I think you you also do that and
then secondly you try to find the right
investor that can co-partner with you uh
it's not just the whatever the brain
firm I usually go for the individual and
then whoever the individual that really
knowledgeable in this space you can the
most important to find a partner to
difficult time and good time. A lot of
the time people are very enjoyable
working with you is a good time. When
the company trouble they just walk away
I like to have partner that really work
through a lot of successful company they
have multiple time almost bank club that
eventually take off. So I think it's
both important to find a partner willing
to do that and then the other part is
look at what are the strategic investor
that can help you either in
manufacturing or memory connectivity or
various way to add value to the company
and also have couple of friend they are
in the growth stage and also in the
hedge fund and I really enjoy them
because they have a different
perspective they know about the public
market he can guide the company
entrepreneur where not to go and so
those can be very helpful. So I think
all you know I think is just fun to do
that and then just realize is a
engineering for startup is like problem
solving each step of the way you have to
find people to help you to solve the
problem and then if you trigger that
then great next frontier to work on
>> and then frankly speaking I look back
nine of the 10 company I invest halfway
they change their business plan
>> because market have changed. So I like
to have entrepreneur as team not just
one person. Secondly open mind. Yeah.
Willing to listen and listen you know
getting coaching from us
>> and then eventually they formulate their
own plan. It's not just do what I want.
It's more they figure out the best thing
is you give them enough feedback they
draw their own conclusion that you
exactly what you like and or different
that you can embrace is the right
decision. That's kind of fun of doing
startup. you know they can much faster.
>> So back your question if you look at it
>> 10 years from now what will be the
winning company this is just my personal
view
>> the one that articulate and laser focus
on one niche area
>> and also find the right partner and also
able to scale the company and so in some
way and back to my point about full
stack. So in the way you need to have a
full stack solution
>> and uh so it can be big company they re
you know transform themsel to be looking
at big platform like Jensen I admire him
>> you know he focus on kuda he focus on
elibu I want to be a platform company
and he did it and so in some way you can
do that or startup company like entropic
openai they find a way to do it in a
more elegant way they change the game
and and then it start up move fast you
know speed of light you can really
become a dominant player and hopefully
Intel can play the role because we have
the XPU and we have the advanced
packaging and we have foundry if you put
that all together can build some of the
purposebuilt silicon for different
workload I think that's where I'm going
>> yeah that makes a lot of sense and I
guess part of the question I was I was
wondering is where you're going and the
other part is does it fundamentally
change how you work because when I look
in the software world I I think there's
a very big shift happening right now in
terms of who you hire, in terms of who
you think you want on board, in terms of
people managing multiple agents. And so,
you know, many people now that I know
are hiring people more in their 30s,
40s, 50s because they're used to
managing teams. And I think that
transfers directly over to managing
agents in terms of understanding the
complexity of what to set up and the QA
and everything else. And I wonder in the
context of the physical world or in the
context of a fab how you think about
shifts in terms of either team structure
or capabilities or how AI layers on. And
so I just wasn't sure if there's if it's
a natural slow evolution or if there's
areas where there's a radical shift
where it's like oh from materials now we
should just use these 3A models plus
some chemistry or whatever it is. So
that's why I was a little bit curious
about
>> how you think about the future world
there.
>> Good question. I think you know the as a
back to that crawl walk and run. So I
think crow you basically try to I
recruit some of the best talent in the
semiconductor industry and then now I
starting to look at what are the
software talent I need to bring on board
and in order to build a full stack and
now I starting to look at you know my
average age of my team in the 40 late 40
>> I need to bring in some new talent and
then so they're understanding the
workload understanding the frontier
model open source uh that is important
So I found out that my son become my
teacher now.
>> So every time he invite me to go to his
house, we're playing to grandkids. I
starting to tap on him on all the AI
machine learning, he's more plug-in than
me. So I learned a lot and then try to
understand investing and then bring some
of the talent to come in. So we are
changing Intel used to be a very old
legacy spreadsheet company. Now I'm
transform it to become AI and not uh AI
enable uh using some of our design and
also across all the engine uh all the
organization embracing AI and then so
they become uh less less uh depend on
the spreadsheet and label to do that and
you're going to combine the two talent
plus the best AI tool that I can use not
only for my organization not only for my
sales and then now exciting to look at
not just marketing and now the design
and then to embrace that.
>> I I think a lot of investors um you know
at at least for me the last few years
since I started a firm it's been very
educational thinking about the different
capital sources for more capital
intensive companies. Uh I did a lot of
software before and um and so your need
to have smart friends with a very
different stance in balance sheet was
less if you're like ah I need $150
million before this thing gets to you
know some critical mass um and and so
you've lived that for a very long time
and then you have the unique experience
of um working with the government as a
large stakeholder. How do you think uh
this sort of industrial policy it's led
to huge successes like TSMC right the
most important companies in the world um
it's also been a bit frowned upon in
American business culture for a long
time like how do you think that should
change now or where is it relevant
>> good question so I think you know
clearly you know for capital intensive
uh business and uh infrastructure play
uh you need to access to the capital and
then in some way I think for our early
day venture capital investment you know
now starting become very capital
intensive
>> yes
>> and some of the venture firm willing to
put 1 billion into some company
>> is very unheard of in the VC business
now it's happening
>> and so in some way you just have to be
you know I like this kind of bell curve
either you go in very early and then
because you're starting to do the series
A is over one billion valuations
>> and so you had to go and pre- money uh
preede to go into that kind of a 20 30
billion valuation is very rare right
now. So you just have to do that pick
the right one and then the other part is
able to find capital to scale and that's
why some of this mutual fund they also
like to move into the pre-market uh
early states to join join me to
investing I delight them because they
are very less sensitive of whether I had
to own 20% of the company there's not
too many 20% to give so you have to find
the right investor to come in and then
in term of the capital intensive like AI
you know factory and also the foundry
and then you really need to tap either
government funding or some sovereign
fund and also some very big capital uh
you know there are some big fund they're
doing that and they really the fund
they've organized is basically support
the infrastructure and we like to tap
into some of them and then to make sure
that they can scale our operation so I
think in overall government sovereign
fund become very important and also as a
public company. I also purposfully want
to focus on some of the investor
>> that are more long-term growth oriented
and so that they can help me to grow the
business and then rather than short-term
asking capital location you know where
do you going to you know buy back your
shares those are good question but
meanwhile I also had to build the
business
>> and so I think it's kind of that balance
is important
>> do you think there is something that
investors like most misunderstand about
Intel at this moment
quite a few thing. First of all, I think
um you know as a back to this uh crawl,
run and walk
>> last four month I crawl and then but
people starting to recognize that
potential of it and so the other part is
very important. We need to really get
the best product out either PC client we
still have a market share but we really
need to really build more perform better
performance. So that's why I'm quietly
building up the CPU architect, GPU
architect and the software architect so
that we can leaprog just like I look at
Intel I want to be a multiple of startup
culture so that we move fast and we can
leaprog using better technology and then
the other part is beside the product
there are some new energy coming in like
aentic AI the physical AI that's a lot
of area that we can invest market is
huge that's on the product side and the
foundry side we are very distant from
TSMC and then in term of their
performance so there uh we have to be
humble looking at building the building
block like I mentioned earlier the IP
the yield the defect density and the
cycle time to make it more efficient and
more reliable is a trust business people
want to trust you before they give you
the wafer to count on you so those are
the thing will take longer time but I
think by 2030
2032 31 32 I think I was starting to
surface up people may not understand how
big potential I can be in term of
product you know the PC client that's
our bread and butter and we moved up to
the edge and move into the physical AI
and a gentic AI and because not right
now in the past you basically provide
the server provide the PC for human
>> now you're starting to have Another
different dimension is millions of agent
they need to access to the compute they
access into the the software stack. So I
think that part I think we have a chance
to really play the game is not over yet.
We can play on the in the injected AI
and also the physical AI. So that's kind
of where I'm going and the AI is just a
beginning. you know you have the
training that Jensen own and the in the
edge and also you know in term of
agentic AI with agents and also physic
AI I think is the jumbo everybody have a
chance so I think that's part that I
want to go for it and so I think
hopefully uh the investor will know even
though in 14 month you know we make six
time return to the shareholder they just
a beginning we still have a lot of room
to go
>> there's venture returns from here
>> yeah so you know I always look for 10x
you know being adventure at heart. You
want to look for 10x and know at cadence
when I step down as a CEO I think we
make about close to 76 time you know
starting from interim CEO $242
and then when I retire executive
chairman about 85 time return to the
shareholder so it hard to do that the
Intel because the base is bigger so I
kind of say okay let's do it at 10x you
know and then and five year 10 years if
we can do 10x X I think is a good return
uh being a venture capital at hug that's
kind of my goal.
>> So there's a Godspeed on this very very
large mission from this um from this
huge base already. Um there's an
embedded belief in what you described
about where the workload is right where
I think some would say like we're just
going to be build bigger and bigger data
centers and a gigawatt is the beginning
and then uh uh but the the
centralization and the efficiency from
running even the inference compute in a
centralized way is the is the dominant
way versus thinking about the edge
thinking about the client. um do you
think that there's like an equilibrium
state that you believe in of where the
compute is or or is it just we will find
out from the workload? How do you think
about that?
>> Yeah, I think you know that's a very
good question. You know the right now
there's a massive buildup in term of the
AI you know the I think it's the right
thing to do. I don't see there anything
to slow it down uh because the workload
is increasing a lot and then I think the
question mark is how
>> we are supply constraint.
>> We're supply constraint. So I think
anything slow down is the supply
constraint. But I think the other part
is uh I always look at all this
infrastructure build up at the end you
have to look at what is the solution
what is the application you want to
drive and I'm more focused on
application. So if you can identify the
application that is humongous or add up
a few application to become meaningful
and you focus on that it's not everybody
build going to be winning
>> and so some going to be winning big time
and some going to lose over time or go
sideway so you know just like internet
you can see some of them turn out to be
very big like Amazon like the Netflix
and then some of them is kind of go
sideway and disappeared or being
acquired and so I think to me it's the
same approach
Then they really focus on what
application they try to serve and that
application how big is that and whether
it's sustainable or not or is very
crowded. So if it's too crowded you know
maybe one or two may survive the other
maybe just consolidate. So I think this
industry go through that big growth and
then then starting to consolidate maybe
eventually one or two become the real
winner. So I think that's kind of a
we've watched the movie before so it's
not surprise to me but focus on
application like Netflix is application
>> you know Amazon is a real application
that to me they're winning
>> but you're assuming that some of these
applications they will be better served
by client or edge compute than the than
than only by the data
>> exactly
>> okay
>> yeah I mean I I will say as a I'm an
investor in a number of companies that
uh you know they're they're doing
robotics they're doing defense and so
the compute on the device is a very
important choice in terms of our and
what we assume around it like let's say
a robot in the home eventually like what
you assume is in the home and in
connectivity around it um determines
what you're able to do right um and I I
think that that's been kind of it was
kind of forgotten for a little bit in
the in the SAS era
>> yes yes I think I more my investment
thesis is find a problem that is really
need to solve
>> and secondly who will be the player that
you can partner with. And then thirdly,
look at the application. How big is that
application? Is that sustainable? And if
it's really big, you believe in it,
double, triple down.
>> But you're including betting on
applications that have not yet been
broadly deployed. Okay,
>> it's amazing.
>> Well, thank you so much for joining us
today. It was a pleasure. Thank you so
much.
>> Thanks, Leu.
>> Thank you.
>> Find us on Twitter at no prior pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way, you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-briers.com.